[memgraph-2-12 < ] Write docs for algo query module (#283)
memgraph/documentation: pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/algo.mdx

---
title: algo
description: Set of procedures for graph algorithms, enabling advanced graph analysis and path finding.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# algo

The algo module provides users with a powerful set of graph algorithms,
enabling users to perform complex graph-based operations and computations, such as graph traversal, edge detection, and more.

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/tree/main/cpp/algo_module"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value               |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| **Module type**     | algorithm           |
| **Implementation**  | C++                 |
| **Graph direction** | directed/undirected |
| **Edge weights**    | weighted/unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential          |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `all_simple_paths()`

> Return every simple path (one which does not visit the same node twice) from `start_node` to `end_node` satisfying the given relationship filters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedure returns every simple path (one which does not visit the same node twice) from `start_node` to `end_node` satisfying the given relationship filters.
```

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

> - `start_node: Node` ➡ First node of the returned path.
> - `end_node: Node` ➡ Final node of the returned path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `start_node: Node` ➡ The first node of the returned path.
- `end_node: Node` ➡ The final node of the returned path.
```

- `relationship_types: List[String]` ➡ A list of relationship filters, explained below.
- `max_length: int` ➡ Max path length.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `path: Path` ➡ A path which satisfies the given conditions.

> #### Relationship filters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{<h4> Relationship filters: </h4>} 
```

Relationship filters are described in the table below:

| Option             | Explanation                                                                                                 |
|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `TYPE`             | Path will expand with either outgoing or incoming relationships of this type.                               |
> | `<TYPE`            | Path will expand with incoming relationships of this type.                                                  |
> | `TYPE>`            | Path will expand with outgoing relationships of this type.                                                  |
> | `<TYPE>`           | Path will expand if both incoming and outgoing relationship of this type exists between the same two nodes. |
> | `>`                | Path will expand with all outgoing relationships.                                                           |
> | `<`                | Path will expand will all incoming relationships.                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `TYPE`             | The path will expand with either outgoing or incoming relationships of this type.                               |
| `<TYPE`            | The path will expand with incoming relationships of this type.                                                  |
| `TYPE>`            | The path will expand with outgoing relationships of this type.                                                  |
| `<TYPE>`           | The path will expand if both incoming and outgoing relationship of this type exists between the same two nodes. |
| `>`                | The path will expand with all outgoing relationships.                                                           |
| `<`                | The path will expand will all incoming relationships.                                                           |
```

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

> Graph creation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a graph using the following queries:
```

```cypher

> CREATE (n1:Node1), (n2:Node2), (n3:Node3), (n4:Node4), (n5:Node5), (n6:Node6) CREATE (n1)-[r1:CONNECTED]->(n2), (n2)-[r2:CONNECTED]->(n3), (n3)-[r3:CONNECTED]->(n4), (n4)-[r4:CONNECTED]->(n5), (n5)-[r5:CONNECTED]->(n6), (n1)-[r6:CONNECTED]->(n3), (n4)-[r7:CONNECTED]->(n6), (n2)-[r8:CONNECTED]->(n1), (n3)-[r9:CONNECTED]->(n2);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CREATE (n1:Node1), (n2:Node2), (n3:Node3), (n4:Node4), (n5:Node5), (n6:Node6)
CREATE (n1)-[r1:CONNECTED]->(n2), (n2)-[r2:CONNECTED]->(n3), (n3)-[r3:CONNECTED]->(n4), (n4)-[r4:CONNECTED]->(n5), (n5)-[r5:CONNECTED]->(n6), (n1)-[r6:CONNECTED]->(n3), (n4)-[r7:CONNECTED]->(n6), (n2)-[r8:CONNECTED]->(n1), (n3)-[r9:CONNECTED]->(n2);
```

```
![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/algo/simplepaths_graph.png)

Query which returns all simple paths of maximum length 2 between Node1 and Node3:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Node1) MATCH (m:Node3)
CALL algo.all_simple_paths(n, m, [], 2) YIELD path AS result RETURN result;
```

Results:

> The procedure will return 4 paths of length 2 and 1 path of length 1 as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedure will return 4 paths of length 2 and 1 path of length 1 as follows:

```

{"nodes":[{"id":18,"labels":["Node1"],"properties":{},"type":"node"},{"id":19,"labels":["Node2"],"properties":{},"type":"node"},{"id":20,"labels":["Node3"],"properties":{},"type":"node"}],"relationships":[{"id":25,"start":18,"end":19,"label":"CONNECTED","properties":{},"type":"relationship"},{"id":33,"start":20,"end":19,"label":"CONNECTED","properties":{},"type":"relationship"}],"type":"path"},
{"nodes":[{"id":18,"labels":["Node1"],"properties":{},"type":"node"},{"id":19,"labels":["Node2"],"properties":{},"type":"node"},{"id":20,"labels":["Node3"],"properties":{},"type":"node"}],"relationships":[{"id":25,"start":18,"end":19,"label":"CONNECTED","properties":{},"type":"relationship"},{"id":26,"start":19,"end":20,"label":"CONNECTED","properties":{},"type":"relationship"}],"type":"path"},
{"nodes":[{"id":18,"labels":["Node1"],"properties":{},"type":"node"},{"id":20,"labels":["Node3"],"properties":{},"type":"node"}],"relationships":[{"id":30,"start":18,"end":20,"label":"CONNECTED","properties":{},"type":"relationship"}],"type":"path"}
```

### `cover()`

> Returns relationships between every two nodes in the list, including self relationship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedure returns relationships between every two nodes in the list, including any self-referencing relationships.
```

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `nodes: List[Node]` ➡ A list of all the input nodes.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

> - `rel: Relationship` ➡ for each relationship between nodes, a separate record is created, and a relationship is returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `rel: Relationship` ➡ A separate record is created for each relationship between nodes, and a relationship is returned.
```

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

> Graph creation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a graph using the following queries:
```

```cypher
CREATE (d:Dog)-[s:SELF_REL]->(d), (d)-[l:LOVES]->(h:Human), (h)-[li:LIVES_IN]->(ho:House);
```

> ![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/algo/cover_graph.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/algo/cover_graph.png)

Retrieve relationships between nodes:
```

```cypher
MATCH (d:Dog),(ho:House),(h:Human)
CALL algo.cover([d, ho, h]) YIELD rel
RETURN startNode(rel), rel, endNode(rel);
```

> Result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Result:
```

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/algo/cover_result.png)

> As we can see from the result, `algo.cover` returned relationships between each two nodes in the input list, including self relationships.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### `astar()`

Runs the A * search algorithm between the start and target node.

> Supports either `Numeric` or `Duration` data types for distance and heuristic properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supports either `Numeric` or `Duration` data types for distance and heuristic properties.

The default heuristic works with the assumption that the
nodes in the graph represent geospatial points and that they have defined properties for latitude and longitude.
In that case, the heuristic for each node is [haversine distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haversine_formula)
between the current node and the target node on Earth, and is returned in kilometers. 

In case you don't want to use geospatial types, or you want a custom heuristic, check the supported [configuration](#configuration).
```

> Additionally, the algorithm can be run with multiple configs, described below in the `Configuration` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

> - `start: Node` ➡ the starting node of the algorithm.
> - `target: Node` ➡ the target node of the algorithm.
> - `config: Map` ➡ configuration map for the algorithm.
> 
> {<h4> Output: </h4>}
> 
> - `path: Path` ➡ the resulting shortest path calculated by the algorithm.
> - `weight: float` ➡ weight of the shortest path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `start: Node` ➡ The starting node.
- `target: Node` ➡ The target node.
- `config: Map` ➡ The configuration map.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `path: Path` ➡ The resulting shortest path calculated by the algorithm.
- `weight: float` ➡ The weight of the shortest path.
```

> {<h4> Default heuristic: </h4>}
> 
> In this section, the default heuristic is explained. The default heuristic works with the assumption that the
> nodes in the graph represent geospatial points and that they have defined properties for latitude and longitude.
> In that case, the heuristic for each node is [haversine distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haversine_formula)
> between the current node and the target node on Earth, and is returned in kilometres. In case you don't want to use geospatial types,
> or you want a custom heuristic, check the `Configuration` section below.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{<h4> Configuration: </h4>}

> Listed here are all configurations. To enable the configuration, when passing `config` in function arguments,
> set the configuration to a desired value. `Example: CALL algo.astar(startNode,targetNode, {configuration_name: configuration_value})`.
> Without some configs, the algorithm can't be run, so they have a default value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the configuration of the procedure, pass the `config` parameter with desired values, for example: `CALL algo.astar(startNode,targetNode, {configuration_name: configuration_value})`.

As some configuration values are obligatory, they have a default value. 
```

> - `distance_prop: string, default = distance` - the name of the distance property in relationships, which is used in calculations. If unspecified,
> the default is used.
> - `latitude_name: string, default = lat` - the name of the latitude property in nodes, which is needed for heuristic calculation. If unspecified,
> the default is used.
> - `longitude_name: string, default = lon` - the name of the longitude property in nodes, which is needed for heuristic calculation. If unspecified,
> the default is used.
> - `heuristic_name: string` - the name of the custom heuristic property. For example, if you don't want to use the provided heuristic,
> you can always define a custom heuristic property in your nodes, and use that. If this option is specified, even if the nodes are geospatial,
> the default heuristic is ignored.
> - `whitelisted_labels: List[string]` - a list of whitelisted labels. If this list is not empty, the algorithm will search for the path only through the node
> with specified labels. Example: `whitelisted_labels: ["City", "Village"]` means only nodes labelled `City` or `Village` will be considered.
> - `blacklisted_labels: List[string]` - a list of blacklisted labels. If this list is not empty, the algorithm will not search for the path through nodes with
> specified labels. Example: `blacklisted_labels: ["City", "Village"]` means nodes labelled `City` or `Village` will NOT be considered.
> - `relationships_filter: List[string]` - a list used for filtering relationships. If the list is empty, the algorithm will search the path
> through all possible relationships. If the list isn't empty, the algorithm will only search the path through the provided relationships.
> There are three possible ways to define a relationship inside the filter. Firstly: `<REL_NAME>`, means only incoming relationships with the
> provided name will be considered by the algorithm. `REL_NAME>` means only outgoing relationships with the provided name will be considered
> by the algorithm. Lastly, `REL_NAME` means that bout outgoing and incoming relationships with the provided name will be considered
> by the algorithm.
> - `duration: bool, default = false` - if `true`, means that the distance and heuristic are of a `Duration` data type. NOTE: If they are not created
> as a `Duration` data type, and the `duration` config is specified as `true`, an exception is thrown. Also, if this config is `true`, the `weight`
> output will be returned as `int`, representing the duration in microseconds.
> - `unweighted: bool, default = false` - if `true`, the algorithm will run unweighted, using only heuristics, not distances between nodes.
> This config will still return the path weight, but it will count each distance the same, as 10.
> - `epsilon: double, default = 1.0` - if the user has provided an admissible heuristic, or if they use the default heuristic,
> they can choose to use the Bounded relaxation property of A *, and multiply the heuristic by `epsilon` value. This will result in a faster algorithm, with a solution
> at most `epsilon` times worse than the base algorithm. See [more](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A*_search_algorithm#Bounded_relaxation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `distance_prop: string, default = distance` - The name of the relationships' distance property. 
- `latitude_name: string, default = lat` - The name of the nodes' latitude property,  needed for the heuristic calculation.
- `longitude_name: string, default = lon` - The name of the nodes' longitude property, needed for the heuristic calculation.
- `heuristic_name: string` - The name of the custom heuristic property. For example, if you don't want to use the provided heuristic,
you can always define and use a custom heuristic node property. If the `heuristic_name` is set to a certain value, the default heuristic is ignored.
- `whitelisted_labels: List[string]` - A list of whitelisted labels through which the algorithm will search for the path. For example, by setting `whitelisted_labels: ["City", "Village"]` the algorithm will consider only nodes labeled `City` or `Village`.
- `blacklisted_labels: List[string]` - A list of blacklisted labels, which will be ignored by the algorithm when searching for a path.  For example, by setting `blacklisted_labels: ["City", "Village"]` the algorithm will ignore nodes labeled `City` or `Village`.
- `relationships_filter: List[string]` - A list used for filtering relationships. If the list is empty, the algorithm will search for the path
through all possible relationships. If the list isn't empty, the algorithm will search for the path only through the listed relationships.
There are three possible ways to define a relationship inside the filter: 
- `<REL_NAME>` - Only the incoming relationships with the defined name will be considered by the algorithm.
- `REL_NAME>`- Only the outgoing relationships with the defined name will be considered by the algorithm. 
- `REL_NAME` - Both outgoing and incoming relationships with the defined name will be considered
by the algorithm.
- `duration: bool, default = false` - If `true`, means that the distance and heuristic properties are of a `Duration` data type. If they are not, but the `duration` config is specified as `true`, an exception is thrown. Also, if this config is `true`, the `weight` output will be returned as `int`, representing the duration in microseconds.
- `unweighted: bool, default = false` - if `true`, the algorithm will ignore the weights, using only heuristics, not distances between nodes. The path weight will still be returned, but all distances will be of the same value 10.
- `epsilon: double, default = 1.0` - If an admissible heuristic has been provided, or if the default heuristic is used,
you can choose to use the [Bounded relaxation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A*_search_algorithm#Bounded_relaxation) property of A *, and multiply the heuristic by `epsilon` value. This will result in a faster algorithm, with a solution at most `epsilon` times worse than the base algorithm.
```

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following section demonstrates the following usages of the procedure:
- default usage
- usage with relationship filtering
- usage with blacklisting
- usage with an unweighted graph
- usage with custom longitude and latitude names
- usage with custom heuristics
- usage with duration:
```

> {<h5> Graph creation: </h5>}
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 
> 
> Graph will have five `City` nodes, and four `MO` nodes. Each node will have a defined latitude and longitude.
> Relationships will be of types `ROAD` and `RIVER`. Each relationship has a defined distance property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Use the following queries to create a graph with five `City` nodes, and four `MO` nodes. Each node has a defined latitude and longitude properties.
The nodes are connected with `ROAD` and `RIVER` type of relationships. Each relationship has a defined distance property.
```

```cypher
CREATE (c1:City1 {lat: -1, lon: -1}), (c2:City2 {lat: 1, lon: -11}),
(c3:City3 {lat: 1, lon: 1}), (c4:City4 {lat: -1, lon: 1}), (c5:City5 {lat: 0, lon: 0}),
(m1:MO1 {lat: -0.5, lon: -0.5}), (m2:MO2 {lat: 0.5, lon: -0.5}),
(m3:MO3 {lat: 0.5, lon: 0.5}) ,(m4:MO4 {lat: -0.5, lon: 0.5}),
(c1)-[r1:ROAD {distance: 300}]->(c2),
(c2)-[r2:ROAD {distance: 300}]->(c3),
(c4)-[r3:ROAD {distance: 280}]->(c3),
(c4)-[r4:ROAD {distance: 310}]->(c1),
(c1)-[r5:RIVER {distance: 90}]->(m1),
(c2)-[r6:ROAD {distance: 90}]->(m2),
(c3)-[r7:ROAD {distance: 85}]->(m3),
(c4)-[r8:ROAD {distance: 100}]->(m4),
(m1)-[r9:RIVER {distance: 140}]->(m4),
(m4)-[r10:RIVER {distance: 145}]->(m3),
(m3)-[r11:RIVER {distance: 130}]->(m2),
(m2)-[r12:RIVER {distance: 125}]->(m1),
(m2)-[r13:ROAD {distance: 90}]->(c5),
(m3)-[r14:RIVER {distance: 100}]->(c5)
```
![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/algo/a_star_graph.png)

{<h5> Default usage: </h5>}

> Since the distance property is already named `distance`, and latitude and longitude properties are already named `lat` and `lon`,
> config map is unnecessary, and the algorithm can be run without it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the distance property is named `distance`, and latitude and longitude properties are named `lat` and `lon`, a config map is unnecessary, and the algorithm can be run without it.
```

```cypher
MATCH (c1:City1), (c5:City5)

> CALL algo.astar(c1,c5, {}) YIELD path, weight  RETURN path, weight;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CALL algo.astar(c1,c5, {}) YIELD path, weight
RETURN path, weight;
```

```
Result:

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/algo/astar_result1.png)

```plaintext
+----------------------------+
| weight                     |
+----------------------------+
| 305                        |
+----------------------------+
```

{<h5> Usage with relationship filtering: </h5>}

> Same as base usage, the only difference being the addition of relationships_filter property. Now, only outgoing
> relationships of type `RIVER` will be considered in path finding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query will find the path by considering only the outgoing relationships of type `RIVER`:
```

```cypher
MATCH (c1:City1), (c5:City5 )

> CALL algo.astar(c1,c5, {relationships_filter:["RIVER>"]}) YIELD path, weight RETURN path, weight;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CALL algo.astar(c1,c5, {relationships_filter:["RIVER>"]})
YIELD path, weight
RETURN path, weight;
```

```

Result:

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/algo/astar_result2.png)

```plaintext
+----------------------------+
| weight                     |
+----------------------------+
| 475                        |
+----------------------------+
```

{<h5> Usage with blacklisting: </h5>}

> Same as base usage, the only difference being the addition of blacklisted labels. In this case, the algorithm won't consider
> nodes labelled `MO1`, `MO2`, `MO3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query will find the path by ignoring nodes labeled `MO1`, `MO2`, `MO3`:
```

```cypher

> MATCH (c1:City1), (c5:City5)
> CALL algo.astar(c1,c5, {blacklisted_labels: ["MO1", "MO2","MO4"]}) YIELD path, weight RETURN path, weight;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MATCH (c1:City1), (c5:City5)
CALL algo.astar(c1,c5, {blacklisted_labels: ["MO1", "MO2","MO4"]})
YIELD path, weight
RETURN path, weight;
```

```

Result:

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/algo/astar_result3.png)

```plaintext
+----------------------------+
| weight                     |
+----------------------------+
| 775                        |
+----------------------------+
```

{<h5> Usage with unweigthed: </h5>}

> In this case, the algorithm won't consider the distance property, instead, it will treat every relationship the same, as having a distance of 10.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the algorithm will ignore the distance property, and treat every relationship as having a distance of 10.
```

```cypher

> MATCH (c1:City1), (c5:City5)
> CALL algo.astar(c1,c5, {unweighted: true}) YIELD path, weight  RETURN path, weight;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MATCH (c1:City1), (c5:City5)
CALL algo.astar(c1,c5, {unweighted: true})
YIELD path, weight 
RETURN path, weight;
```

```

Result:

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/algo/astar_result4.png)

```plaintext
+----------------------------+
| weight                     |
+----------------------------+
| 30                         |
+----------------------------+
```

{<h5> Custom latitude, longitude and distance name: </h5>}

> Same as base usage, only the property names have been changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following queries to create a graph with five `City` nodes, and four `MO` nodes. Each node has defined latitude and longitude properties but with names the algorithm doesn't consider as default names (lat and lon).
The nodes are connected with `ROAD` and `RIVER` type of relationships. Each relationship has a defined separation property.
```

```cypher
CREATE
(c1:City1 {latitude: -1, longitude: -1}),
(c2:City2 {latitude: 1, longitude: -1}),
(c3:City3 {latitude: 1, longitude: 1}),
(c4:City4 {latitude: -1, longitude: 1}),
(c5:City5 {latitude: 0, longitude: 0}),
(m1:MO1 {latitude: -0.5, longitude: -0.5}),
(m2:MO2 {latitude: 0.5, longitude: -0.5}),
(m3:MO3 {latitude: 0.5, longitude: 0.5}),
(m4:MO4 {latitude: -0.5, longitude: 0.5}),
(c1)-[r1:ROAD {separation: 300}]->(c2),
(c2)-[r2:ROAD {separation: 300}]->(c3),
(c4)-[r3:ROAD {separation: 280}]->(c3),
(c4)-[r4:ROAD {separation: 310}]->(c1),
(c1)-[r5:RIVER {separation: 90}]->(m1),
(c2)-[r6:ROAD {separation: 90}]->(m2),
(c3)-[r7:ROAD {separation: 85}]->(m3),
(c4)-[r8:ROAD {separation: 100}]->(m4),
(m1)-[r9:RIVER {separation: 140}]->(m4),
(m4)-[r10:RIVER {separation: 145}]->(m3),
(m3)-[r11:RIVER {separation: 130}]->(m2),
(m2)-[r12:RIVER {separation: 125}]->(m1),
(m2)-[r13:ROAD {separation: 90}]->(c5),
(m3)-[r14:RIVER {separation: 100}]->(c5);
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search the path by adjusting the procedure to use non-default names for longitude, latitude and distance: 

```

```cypher

> MATCH (c1:City1 ), (c5:City5 )
> CALL algo.astar(c1,c5, {distance_prop:"separation", latitude_name: "latitude", longitude_name:"longitude"}) YIELD path, weight RETURN path, weight;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MATCH (c1:City1 ), (c5:City5 )
CALL algo.astar(c1,c5, {distance_prop:"separation", latitude_name: "latitude", longitude_name:"longitude"})
YIELD path, weight
RETURN path, weight;
```

```

Result:

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/algo/astar_result5.png)

```plaintext
+----------------------------+
| weight                     |
+----------------------------+
| 305                        |
+----------------------------+
```

> As expected, results are the same as in base usage, since the only change was renaming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{<h5> Usage with custom heuristic: </h5>}

> In this case, the default heuristic isn't used. Instead, each node already has manually calculated haversine distance,
> saved under `heur` property. Now, in the config map, a `heuristic_name` property must be included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following queries to create a graph with five `City` nodes, and four `MO` nodes. Each node has manually calculated Haversine distance, saved under `heur` property. 
The nodes are connected with `ROAD` and `RIVER` type of relationships. Each relationship has a defined distance property.
```

```cypher
CREATE (c1:City1 {heur: 157.2}), (c2:City2 {heur: 157.2}), (c3:City3 {heur: 157.2}),
(c4:City4 {heur: 157.2}),
(c5:City5 {heur: 0}),
(m1:MO1 {heur: 78.62}), (m2:MO2 {heur: 78.62}),
(m3:MO3 {heur: 78.62}) ,(m4:MO4 {heur: 78.62}),
(c1)-[r1:ROAD {distance: 300}]->(c2),
(c2)-[r2:ROAD {distance: 300}]->(c3),
(c4)-[r3:ROAD {distance: 280}]->(c3),
(c4)-[r4:ROAD {distance: 310}]->(c1),
(c1)-[r5:RIVER {distance: 90}]->(m1),
(c2)-[r6:ROAD {distance: 90}]->(m2),
(c3)-[r7:ROAD {distance: 85}]->(m3),
(c4)-[r8:ROAD {distance: 100}]->(m4),
(m1)-[r9:RIVER {distance: 140}]->(m4),
(m4)-[r10:RIVER {distance: 145}]->(m3),
(m3)-[r11:RIVER {distance: 130}]->(m2),
(m2)-[r12:RIVER {distance: 125}]->(m1),
(m2)-[r13:ROAD {distance: 90}]->(c5),
(m3)-[r14:RIVER {distance: 100}]->(c5)
```

> ```cypher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As this graph isn't using the default heuristic the config map must include the `heuristic_name` property must.
```cypher
```

MATCH (c1:City1 ), (c5:City5 )

> CALL algo.astar(c1,c5, {heuristic_name: "heur"}) YIELD path, weight RETURN path, weight;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CALL algo.astar(c1,c5, {heuristic_name: "heur"})
YIELD path, weight
RETURN path, weight;
```

```

Result:

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/algo/astar_result6.png)

```plaintext
+----------------------------+
| weight                     |
+----------------------------+
| 305                        |
+----------------------------+
```

{<h5> Usage with duration: </h5>}

> In this case, the heuristic value and distance value aren't `Numeric` data types, but rather `Duration` data types.
> Also, only `RIVER` relationships are allowed, both incoming and outgoing. Since a custom heuristic is used, it needs to be specified
> alongside other properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following queries to create a graph with five `City` nodes, and four `MO` nodes. Each node's heuristic property is of type `Duration`.
The nodes are connected with `ROAD` and `RIVER` type of relationships. Each relationship has a defined distance property of type `Duration`.
```

```cypher
CREATE (c1:City1 {heur: duration("PT1H30M")}), (c2:City2 {heur: duration("PT1H30M")}), (c3:City3 {heur: duration("PT1H30M")}),
(c4:City4 {heur: duration("PT1H30M")}),
(c5:City5 {heur: duration("PT0H")}),
(m1:MO1 {heur: duration("PT47M")}), (m2:MO2 {heur: duration("PT47M")}),
(m3:MO3 {heur: duration("PT47M")}) ,(m4:MO4 {heur: duration("PT47M")}),
(c1)-[r1:ROAD {distance: duration("PT3H")}]->(c2),
(c2)-[r2:ROAD {distance: duration("PT3H")}]->(c3),
(c4)-[r3:ROAD {distance: duration("PT2H48M")}]->(c3),
(c4)-[r4:ROAD {distance: duration("PT3H6M")}]->(c1),
(c1)-[r5:RIVER {distance: duration("PT54M")}]->(m1),
(c2)-[r6:ROAD {distance: duration("PT54M")}]->(m2),
(c3)-[r7:ROAD {distance: duration("PT51M")}]->(m3),
(c4)-[r8:ROAD {distance: duration("PT1H")}]->(m4),
(m1)-[r9:RIVER {distance: duration("PT1H24M")}]->(m4),
(m4)-[r10:RIVER {distance: duration("PT1H27M")}]->(m3),
(m3)-[r11:RIVER {distance: duration("PT1H18M")}]->(m2),
(m2)-[r12:RIVER {distance: duration("PT1H15M")}]->(m1),
(m2)-[r13:ROAD {distance: duration("PT54M")}]->(c5),
(m3)-[r14:RIVER {distance: duration("PT1H")}]->(c5)

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the node is not using the default names for the heuristic properties, and they, as well as distances, are of type `Duration` rather than the default `Number` data type, they need to be specified in the configuration map. 
Also, the query searches for a path using only `RIVER` relationships, both incoming and outgoing.
alongside other properties.

```

```cypher
MATCH (c1:City1 ), (c5:City5 )
CALL algo.astar(c1,c5, {heuristic_name: "heur", duration: true, relationships_filter: ["RIVER"]})

> YIELD path, weight RETURN path, weight;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
YIELD path, weight
RETURN path, weight;
```

  setting `blacklisted_labels: ["City", "Village"]` the algorithm will ignore
  nodes labeled `City` or `Village`.
- `relationships_filter: List[string]` - A list used for filtering
  relationships. If the list is empty, the algorithm will search for the path
  through all possible relationships. If the list isn't empty, the algorithm will
  search for the path only through the listed relationships. There are three
  possible ways to define a relationship inside the filter: 
  - `<REL_NAME>` - Only the incoming relationships with the defined name will be
  considered by the algorithm.
  - `REL_NAME>`- Only the outgoing relationships with the defined name will be
   considered by the algorithm. 
  - `REL_NAME` - Both outgoing and incoming relationships with the defined name
    will be considered by the algorithm.
- `duration: bool, default = false` - If `true`, means that the distance and
  heuristic properties are of a `Duration` data type. If they are not, but the
  `duration` config is specified as `true`, an exception is thrown. Also, if
  this config is `true`, the `weight` output will be returned as `int`,
  representing the duration in microseconds.

> - `unweighted: bool, default = false` - if `true`, the algorithm will ignore the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `unweighted: bool, default = false` - If `true`, the algorithm will ignore the
```
